# Coronavirus tweets

You will scan all geotagged tweets sent after November 2019 to monitor for the spread of the coronavirus on social media.

**Due date:** 
Thursday, 30 April

(This homework will require LOTs of computation time.
I recommend that you have your code working by 9 April to ensure that you will have enough time to execute the code.)

**Learning Objectives:**

1. work with large scale datasets
1. work with multilingual text
1. use the MapReduce divide-and-conquer paradigm to create parallel code
1. improve familiarity

## Background

Approximately 500 million tweets are sent everyday.
Of those tweets, about 2% are *geotagged*.
That is, the user's device includes location information about where the tweets were sent from.
The lambda server's `/data/tweets_corona` folder contains all geotagged tweets that have been sent since October 2019 when the coronavirus first began to spread.
In total, there are about 300 million tweets in this dataset.

The tweets are stored as follows.
The tweets for each day are stored in a zip file `geoTwitterYY-MM-DD.zip`,
and inside this zip file are 24 text files, one for each hour of the day.
Each text file contains a single tweet per line in JSON format.
JSON is a popular format for storing data that is closely related to python dictionaries.

Vim is able to open compressed zip files,
and I encourage you to use vim to explore the dataset.

## Background Tasks

Complete the following tasks to familiarize yourself with the sample code:

1. Fork the [twitter\_coronavirus](https://github.com/mikeizbicki/twitter_coronavirus) repo and clone it onto the lambda-server.
   (Notice that this repo does not have travis tests.)

1. **Mapping:**
   The `map.py` file processes the zip file for an individual day.
   From the root directory of your clone, run the command
   ```
   $ ./src/map.py --input_path=/data/tweets_corona/geoTwitter20-02-16.zip
   ```
   This command will take a few minutes to run as it is processing all of the tweets within the zip file.
   After the command finishes, you will now have a folder `outputs` that contains a file `/geoTwitter20-02-16.zip.lang`.
   This is a file that contains JSON formatted information summarizing the tweets from 16 February.

1. **Visualizing:**
   The `visualize.py` file displays the output from running the `map.py` file.
   Run the command
   ```
   $ ./src/visualize.py --input_path=outputs/geoTwitter20-02-16.zip.lang --key='#coronavirus'
   ```
   This displays the total number of times the hashtag `#coronavirus` was used on 16 February in each of the languages supported by twitter.
   Now manually inspect the output of the `.lang` file using vim:
   ```
   $ vim outputs/geoTwitter-20-02-16.zip.lang
   ```
   You should see that the file contains a dictionary of dictionaries.
   The outermost dictionary has languages as the keys, 
   and the innermost dictionary has hashtags as the keys.
   The `visualize.py` file simply provides a nicer visualization of these dictionaries.

1. **Reducing:**
   The `reduce.py` file merges the outputs generated by the `map.py` file so that the combined files can be visualized.
   Generate a new output file by running the command
   ```
   $ ./src/map.py --input_path=/data/tweets_corona/geoTwitter20-02-17.zip
   ```
   Then merge these output files together by running the command
   ```
   $ ./src/reduce.py --input_paths outputs/geoTwitter20-02-16.zip.lang outputs/geoTwitter20-02-17.zip.lang --output_path=reduced.lang
   ```
   Alternatively, you can use the glob to merge all output files with the command
   ```
   $ ./src/reduce.py --input_paths outputs/geoTwitter*.lang --output_path=reduced.lang
   ```
   Now you can visualize the `reduced.lang` file with the command
   ```
   $ ./src/visualize.py --input_path=reduced.lang
   ```
   and this displays the combined result.

## Tasks

Complete the following tasks:

1. Modify the `map.py` file so that it tracks the usage of the hashtags on both a language and country level.
   This will require creating a variable `counter_country` similar to the variable `counter_lang`, 
   and modifying this variable in the `#search hashtags` section of the code appropriately.
   The output of running `map.py` should be two files now, one that ends in `.lang` for the lanuage dictionary (same as before),
   and one that ends in `.country` for the country dictionary.

   **HINT:**
   Most tweets contain a 'place' key,
   which contains a dictionary with the `country_code` key.
   This is how you should lookup the country that a tweet was sent from.
   Some tweets, however, do not have a `country_code` key.
   This can happen, for example, if the tweet was sent from international waters.
   Your code will have to be generic enough to handle edge cases similar to this.

1. Once your `map.py` file has been modified to track results for each country,
   you should run the map file on all the tweets in the `/data/tweets_corona` folder.
   The file `scripts/run_maps.sh` contains shell code that does this for you.
   This command will likely take several days to run, 
   and so you should use the `nohup` command to ensure the program continues to run after you disconnect.

1. After your modified map has run on all the files,
   you should have a large number of files in your `outputs` folder.
   Use the `reduce.py` file to combine all of the `.lang` files into a single file,
   and all of the `.country` files into a different file.
   Then use the `visualize.py` file to count the total number of occurrences of each of the hashtags.

   For each hashtag, you should create an output file in your repo using output redirection
   ```
   $ ./src/visualize --input_path=PATH --key=HASHTAG | head > viz/HASHTAG
   ```
   but replace `PATH` with the path to the output of your `reduce.py` file and `HASHTAG` is replaced with the hashtag you are analyzing.

1. Commit all of your code and visualization output files to your github repo and push the results to github.

## Extra credit

The `src/visualize.py` file does not currently provide a great visualization of the data.
You can use the matplotlib library to provide better visualizations.
If you choose to do this, you will get up to 2 points of extra credit depending on the quality of your visualization.

## Submission

Upload a link to you github repository on sakai.
I will look at your code and visualization to determine your grade.

## Collaboration Policy

All forms of collaboration with other students are encouraged.
You may use any other online resources you like to complete this assignment.
